charts/mgmt-agent/README.md, before:

# oci-onm-mgmt-agent

![Version: 3.0.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-3.0.0-informational?style=flat-square) ![Type: application](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-application-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: 1.16.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-1.16.0-informational?style=flat-square)

A Helm chart for collecting Kubernetes Metrics using OCI Management Agent into OCI Monitoring.

## Requirements

| Repository | Name | Version |
|------------|------|---------|
| file://../common | oci-onm-common | 3.0.0 |

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| deployMetricServer | bool | `true` | By default, metric server will be deployed and used by Management Agent to collect metrics. You can set this to false if you already have metric server installed on your cluster |
| global.namespace | string | `"oci-onm"` | Kubernetes Namespace in which the resources to be created. Set oci-kubernetes-monitoring-common:createNamespace set to true, if the namespace doesn't exist. |
| global.resourceNamePrefix | string | `"oci-onm"` | Prefix to be attached to resources created through this chart. Not all resources may have this prefix. |
| kubernetesCluster.compartmentId | string | `nil` | OCI Compartment Id to push Kubernetes Monitoring metrics. If not specified default is same as Agent compartment |
| kubernetesCluster.name | string | `nil` | Kubernetes cluster name |
| kubernetesCluster.namespace | string | `"*"` | Kubernetes cluster namespace(s) to monitor. This can be a comma-separated list of namespaces or '*' to monitor all the namespaces |
| kubernetesCluster.monitoringNamespace | string | `nil` | OCI namespace to push Kubernetes Monitoring metrics. If not specified then it will pushed to 'mgmtagent_kubernetes_metrics' |
| kubernetesCluster.overrideAllowMetricsAPIServer | string | `nil` | Provide the specific list of comma separated metric names for agent computed metrics to be collected. |
| kubernetesCluster.overrideAllowMetricsCluster | string | `nil` | Provide the specific list of comma separated metric names for agent computed metrics to be collected |
| kubernetesCluster.overrideAllowMetricsKubelet | string | `nil` | Provide the specific list of comma separated metric names for Kubelet (/api/v1/nodes/<node_name>/proxy/metrics) metrics to be collected |
| kubernetesCluster.overrideAllowMetricsNode | string | `nil` | Provide the specific list of comma separated metric names for Node (/api/v1/nodes/<node_name>/proxy/metrics/resource, /api/v1/nodes/<node_name>/proxy/metrics/cadvisor) metrics to be collected |
| mgmtagent.image.secret | string | `nil` | Image secrets to use for pulling container image (base64 encoded content of ~/.docker/config.json file) |
| mgmtagent.image.url | string | `nil` | Replace this value with actual docker image URL for Management Agent |
| mgmtagent.installKey | string | `"resources/input.rsp"` | Copy the downloaded Management Agent Install Key file under root helm directory as resources/input.rsp |
| mgmtagent.installKeyFileContent | string | `nil` | Provide the base64 encoded content of the Management Agent Install Key file |
| namespace | string | `"{{ .Values.global.namespace }}"` | Kubernetes namespace to create and install this helm chart in |
| oci-onm-common.createNamespace | bool | `true` | If createNamespace is set to true, it tries to create the namespace defined in 'namespace' variable. |
| oci-onm-common.createServiceAccount | bool | `true` | By default, a cluster role, cluster role binding and serviceaccount will be created for the monitoring pods to be able to (readonly) access various objects within the cluster, to support collection of various telemetry data. You may set this to false and provide your own serviceaccount (in the parent chart(s)) which has the necessary cluster role(s) binded to it. Refer, README for the cluster role definition and other details. |
| oci-onm-common.namespace | string | `"{{ .Values.global.namespace }}"` | Kubernetes Namespace in which the serviceaccount to be created. |
| oci-onm-common.resourceNamePrefix | string | `"{{ .Values.global.resourceNamePrefix }}"` | Prefix to be attached to resources created through this chart. Not all resources may have this prefix. |
| oci-onm-common.serviceAccount | string | `"{{ .Values.global.resourceNamePrefix }}"` | Name of the Kubernetes ServiceAccount |
| serviceAccount | string | `"{{ .Values.global.resourceNamePrefix }}"` | Name of the Kubernetes ServiceAccount |
| deployment.security.runAsUser | integer | `1000` | Processes in the Container will use the specified user ID |
| deployment.security.runAsGroup | integer | `2000` | Processes in the Container will use the specified group ID |
| deployment.security.fsGroup | integer | `2000` | Files created in the Container will use the specified group ID |
| deployment.daemonSetDeployment | bool | `false` | By default Agent will be deployed as StatefulSet. For DaemonSet deployment, set this to true |
| deployment.daemonSet.hostPath | string | `nil` |  The host path to store data, if Agent is deployed as DaemonSet. Agent should have read-write access to it |
| deployment.resource.request.cpuCore | string | `200m` | Minimum CPU cores(millicore) for each agent instance |
| deployment.resource.request.memory | string | `500Mi` | Minimum memory(mebibytes) for each agent instance |
| deployment.resource.request.storage | string | `2Gi` | Minimum storage(gibibyte) for StatefulSet's PVC |
| deployment.resource.limit.cpuCore | string | `500m` | Maximum CPU cores(millicore) for each agent instance |
| deployment.resource.limit.memory | string | `1Gi` | Maximum memory(gibibyte) for each agent instance |
| deployment.storageClass | string | `nil` | The storage class for StatefulSet's PVC. If not provided then the Cluster's default storage class will be used |

----------------------------------------------
Autogenerated from chart metadata using [helm-docs v1.11.0](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/releases/v1.11.0)

Commit message:

add support for statefulset and daemonset deployment

charts/mgmt-agent/README.md, after:

# oci-onm-mgmt-agent

![Version: 3.0.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-3.0.0-informational?style=flat-square) ![Type: application](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-application-informational?style=flat-square) ![AppVersion: 1.16.0](https://img.shields.io/badge/AppVersion-1.16.0-informational?style=flat-square)

A Helm chart for collecting Kubernetes Metrics using OCI Management Agent into OCI Monitoring.

## Requirements

| Repository | Name | Version |
|------------|------|---------|
| file://../common | oci-onm-common | 3.0.0 |

## Values

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| deployMetricServer | bool | `true` | By default, metric server will be deployed and used by Management Agent to collect metrics. You can set this to false if you already have metric server installed on your cluster |
| global.namespace | string | `"oci-onm"` | Kubernetes Namespace in which the resources to be created. Set oci-kubernetes-monitoring-common:createNamespace set to true, if the namespace doesn't exist. |
| global.resourceNamePrefix | string | `"oci-onm"` | Prefix to be attached to resources created through this chart. Not all resources may have this prefix. |
| kubernetesCluster.compartmentId | string | `nil` | OCI Compartment Id to push Kubernetes Monitoring metrics. If not specified default is same as Agent compartment |
| kubernetesCluster.name | string | `nil` | Kubernetes cluster name |
| kubernetesCluster.namespace | string | `"*"` | Kubernetes cluster namespace(s) to monitor. This can be a comma-separated list of namespaces or '*' to monitor all the namespaces |
| kubernetesCluster.monitoringNamespace | string | `nil` | OCI namespace to push Kubernetes Monitoring metrics. If not specified then it will pushed to 'mgmtagent_kubernetes_metrics' |
| kubernetesCluster.overrideAllowMetricsAPIServer | string | `nil` | Provide the specific list of comma separated metric names for agent computed metrics to be collected. |
| kubernetesCluster.overrideAllowMetricsCluster | string | `nil` | Provide the specific list of comma separated metric names for agent computed metrics to be collected |
| kubernetesCluster.overrideAllowMetricsKubelet | string | `nil` | Provide the specific list of comma separated metric names for Kubelet (/api/v1/nodes/<node_name>/proxy/metrics) metrics to be collected |
| kubernetesCluster.overrideAllowMetricsNode | string | `nil` | Provide the specific list of comma separated metric names for Node (/api/v1/nodes/<node_name>/proxy/metrics/resource, /api/v1/nodes/<node_name>/proxy/metrics/cadvisor) metrics to be collected |
| mgmtagent.image.secret | string | `nil` | Image secrets to use for pulling container image (base64 encoded content of ~/.docker/config.json file) |
| mgmtagent.image.url | string | `nil` | Replace this value with actual docker image URL for Management Agent |
| mgmtagent.installKey | string | `"resources/input.rsp"` | Copy the downloaded Management Agent Install Key file under root helm directory as resources/input.rsp |
| mgmtagent.installKeyFileContent | string | `nil` | Provide the base64 encoded content of the Management Agent Install Key file |
| namespace | string | `"{{ .Values.global.namespace }}"` | Kubernetes namespace to create and install this helm chart in |
| oci-onm-common.createNamespace | bool | `true` | If createNamespace is set to true, it tries to create the namespace defined in 'namespace' variable. |
| oci-onm-common.createServiceAccount | bool | `true` | By default, a cluster role, cluster role binding and serviceaccount will be created for the monitoring pods to be able to (readonly) access various objects within the cluster, to support collection of various telemetry data. You may set this to false and provide your own serviceaccount (in the parent chart(s)) which has the necessary cluster role(s) binded to it. Refer, README for the cluster role definition and other details. |
| oci-onm-common.namespace | string | `"{{ .Values.global.namespace }}"` | Kubernetes Namespace in which the serviceaccount to be created. |
| oci-onm-common.resourceNamePrefix | string | `"{{ .Values.global.resourceNamePrefix }}"` | Prefix to be attached to resources created through this chart. Not all resources may have this prefix. |
| oci-onm-common.serviceAccount | string | `"{{ .Values.global.resourceNamePrefix }}"` | Name of the Kubernetes ServiceAccount |
| serviceAccount | string | `"{{ .Values.global.resourceNamePrefix }}"` | Name of the Kubernetes ServiceAccount |
| deployment.security.runAsUser | integer | `1000` | Processes in the Container will use the specified user ID |
| deployment.security.runAsGroup | integer | `2000` | Processes in the Container will use the specified group ID |
| deployment.security.fsGroup | integer | `2000` | Files created in the Container will use the specified group ID |
| deployment.daemonSetDeployment | bool | `false` | Set the daemonset deployment to true, to deploy additional agents, to distribute the node metrics collection |
| deployment.daemonSet.hostPath | string | `nil` |  The host path to store data, if Agent is deployed as DaemonSet. Agent should have read-write access to it |
| deployment.resource.request.cpuCore | string | `200m` | Minimum CPU cores(millicore) for each agent instance |
| deployment.resource.request.memory | string | `500Mi` | Minimum memory(mebibytes) for each agent instance |
| deployment.resource.request.storage | string | `2Gi` | Minimum storage(gibibyte) for StatefulSet's PVC |
| deployment.resource.limit.cpuCore | string | `500m` | Maximum CPU cores(millicore) for each agent instance |
| deployment.resource.limit.memory | string | `1Gi` | Maximum memory(gibibyte) for each agent instance |
| deployment.storageClass | string | `nil` | The storage class for StatefulSet's PVC. If not provided then the Cluster's default storage class will be used |

----------------------------------------------
Autogenerated from chart metadata using [helm-docs v1.11.0](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs/releases/v1.11.0)
